# Complex - and Quaternion - Analysis

(An edX MOOG)[https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:MISISx+1.1x+3T2020a/course/]

Learning complex analysis while trying to extend the work to quaternions.

The MOOG is n 8 lecture class taught by two highly qualified theoretical
physics on complex analysis. Doug Sweetser is trying to apply leasons newly
learned to quaternion analysis which is not a thing in the literature yet. 

The approach strikes this student as practical and efficient: here is the
theory, here is a practical example, now do your homework.

## Teachers (scraped from edX)

__Yaroslav Rodionov__

Associate professor at National University of Science and Technology MISiS,
researcher at Institute for theoretical and Applied electrodynamics, Received
his Ph. D. in theoretical physics in Landau Institute for theoretical physics.

Areas of Expertise: Condensed matter theory.

__Konstantin Tikhonov__

Researcher at Landau Institute for theoretical physics. Received his Ph. D. in
theoretical physics in Landau Institute for theoretical physics and Texas A&M
University.

Areas of Expertise: Condensed matter theory.

## My odd quaternion slant

I have owned the domain (quaterions.com)[http://quaternions.com] for a long
time. A quaternion is like a complex number, but with three imaginary terms
instead of one. There is no proof in complex analysis that cannot also be done
with quaternions of the form (a, b, 0, 0). Such an exercise will strike most
professionals as dull and uninformative. I will concede the work is dull.
Complex numbers are a deeply useful mathematical abstraction. Quaternions
necessarily have the same abstract properties, but there is a possible physical
interpretations of quaternions as events in Minkowski space-time. Such events
are treated as scalars like the real and complex numbers, not tensor of rank 1. 

I want to learn the one mathematics that all of Nature uses all of the time.
Complex numbers - by themselves with no additional structure - can describe
nothing. One event in space-time can be described by one quaternion. The
abstract idea of a 4D division algebra has a direct physical interpretation:
time is the scalar and 3D space are the three imaginary numbers. As I read and
try to understand the notes, I will consistently interpret the real numbers a
time-ish thing (time, change in time, integral of time, energy, or charge
density). I will interpret imaginary numbers as space-ish thing (position,
change in position, integral of position, momentum, or current density).

That is a start, but a pattern of quaternions requires a quaternion series (n
quaternions in one structure where n could be infinite). To do quantum
mechanics, one needs both the quaternion series and the conjugate of that
quaternion series to create a quaternion Hilbert space. One also need something
I call the "point with precision" principle. The idea is that experiments in
the lab a super precise about the one tiny volume of space where the data are
collected over time and from the data the model is built. If the people at the
bench are being precise about location, that should be reflected in the
numbers. For quaternions, that means the 3-vector used must all point in the
same direction. Such a collection of quaternions would commute. One is free to
change from quaternions all of the form (a, b, 0, 0) to (a, b, c, d) so long as
one remains consistent.

It is fair to complain that the point with precision principle was designed to
be consistent with all the results achieved with quantum mechanics. Since that
body of knowledge is huge, I am guilty. But I am guilty for a reason: I want to
understand physically what a quaternion conjugate is (a mirror reflection)
instead of some abstraction that is magically useful.

The long term hope is to develop software to animate every expression and have
web apps that people can play with quaternions on their phones. All of three
have been built (and do no reveal too much, but it is a concrete start, so not
all vaporware). Imagine quaternion analysis you can play with on a phone,
particularly with the math is an expression for a hydrogen atom. At least I can
dream about it.

